# C# 7.0 Features

> C# version 7.0 was released with Visual Studio 2017. This version has some evolutionary and cool stuff in the vein of C# 6.0. Here are some of the new features:


C# 7.0 - .NET Core 2.0

* Out variables
* Tuples and deconstruction
* Pattern matching
* Local functions
* Expanded expression bodied members
* Ref locals
* Ref returns
* Other features included:
* Discards
* Binary Literals and Digit Separators
* Throw expressions

<hr />

# C# 7.1 

C# started releasing point releases with C# 7.1. This version added the language version selection configuration element, three new language features, and new compiler behavior.

The new language features in this release are:

* `async` Main method
    The entry point for an application can have the async modifier.
* `default` literal expressions
    You can use default literal expressions in default value expressions when the target type can be inferred.
* Inferred tuple element names
    The names of tuple elements can be inferred from tuple initialization in many cases.
* Pattern matching on generic type parameters
    You can use pattern match expressions on variables whose type is a generic type parameter.

Finally, the compiler has two options `-refout` and `-refonly` that control reference assembly generation.

<hr />

# C# version 7.2
Released November, 2017

C# 7.2 added several small language features:

* Initializers on `stackalloc` arrays.
* Use `fixed` statements with any type that supports a pattern.
* Access fixed fields without pinning.
* Reassign `ref` local variables.
* Declare `readonly struct` types, to indicate that a struct is immutable and should be passed as an `in` parameter to its member methods.
* Add the `in` modifier on parameters, to specify that an argument is passed by reference but not modified by the called * method.
* Use the `ref readonly` modifier on method returns, to indicate that a method returns its value by reference but doesn't * allow writes to that object.
* Declare `ref struct` types, to indicate that a struct type accesses managed memory directly and must always be stack * allocated.
* Use additional generic constraints.
* Non-trailing named arguments
  * Named arguments can be followed by positional arguments.
* Leading underscores in numeric literals
  * Numeric literals can now have leading underscores before any printed digits.
* private protected access modifier
  * The `private protected` access modifier enables access for derived classes in the same assembly.
* Conditional `ref` expressions
  * The result of a conditional expression (?:) can now be a reference.